#summary Java sample code

= Using the Java sample code =

The Java sample code is available for browsing in the [http://code.google.com/p/google-mail-oauth2-tools/source/browse/trunk/java/ repository], and can also be downloaded in a [http://google-mail-oauth-tools.googlecode.com/files/oauth2-java-sample-20120904.zip ZIP file].

== Prerequisites ==
You'll need the following packages installed on your system to run the sample code:

  * JDK version 1.5 or higher
  * The !JavaMail API version 1.4.5 or higher. This is available [http://java.sun.com/products/javamail/ alone] or as part of [http://java.sun.com/javaee/ Java EE].
  * [http://ant.apache.org/ Apache Ant]
  * An OAuth Token and Token Secret for a Gmail account. You can use [OAuth2DotPyRunThrough oauth2.py] to generate these for your own account.

== Downloading and configuring ==
Download the sample code package from
[http://google-mail-oauth2-tools.googlecode.com/files/oauth2-java-sample-20120904.zip here], unzip it, and change into the `oauth2-java-sample-20120904` directory.

Open the file `build.properties` in a text editor and modify the following properties:

  * `javamail_jar`: If you are not using a Java EE jdk and need to specifically include the location of the !JavaMail JAR file, put that here. Otherwise it's ok to leave this property blank.
  * `email`: The email address of a Gmail account to which you want to authenticate.
  * `oauthToken`: A valid OAuth2 access token for the Gmail account.

Save `build.properties` and close your editor

== Running the sample app ==

Execute `ant run` to run the sample application with the parameters you specified in build.properties. If everything worked properly, you should see some debug output including the lines:

{{{
[...]
[java] Successfully authenticated to IMAP.
[...]
[java] Successfully authenticated to SMTP.
}}}

== Exploring the sample code ==

The high-level sample code is in [http://code.google.com/p/google-mail-oauth2-tools/source/browse/trunk/java/com/google/code/samples/oauth2/OAuth2Authenticator.java OAuth2Authenticator.java]. The two important methods are `initialize` and `connectToImap`. `initialize` installs a !SaslClient provider of the XOAUTH2 mechanism; it needs to be called once before any calls to `connectToImap`.  `connectToImap` can be called to open new IMAP connections and authenticate to them with XOAUTH2.
